This repository contains set of tools for collaborating in patches sharing.
This document also describes patch sharing conventions.

Patch repository should have following structure:

+ packagename-patches
+ tools
- README
- MAINTAINERS

where ''README'' contains basic description of the software these patches are
for and ''MAINTAINERS'' file contains list of people to contact in case of any
questions. ''README'' should include at least URL to the upstream whenever
possible. Brief description is also recommended. ''tools'' directory should be
in fact submodule pointing to this repository. ''packagename-patches''
directory contains patches in the format described bellow. ''packagename''
should be replaced with some generic package name, not really distribution
specific, preferably upstream specific.

All patches follows same naming conventions. Patch
name consists of "${package name}-${package version}-${patch name}.patch".
Package name and version denotes against which version was patch created. If
you look into the patch, you'll see detailed description. On first line, there
is always a tag. It contains four words separated by dash. First word is always
PATCH. Second is in form P[0-9]+ and denotes how long prefix should be stripped
when applying patch. Third one can be FIX, HACK or FEATURE.

FIX          clean fix of error that anybody can be proud of and should be
             published.
HACK         ugly fix that's certainly not right, but makes it works somehow
             and should be replaced by better fix in the future
FEATURE      patch adds new feature which wasn't there before

Last field in tag specifies intended audience for the patch. It can contain
following values:

SUSE         patch specific to SuSE integration. Probably not interesting for
             anybody else.
UPSTREAM     patch that either should be upstream or is already at upstream.
             This includes backports of security patches and fixes, that should
             be reported and corrected in upstream.
DOWNSTREAM   This patch will never make it to the upstream version for whatever
             reason. But every sane distribution has something like this. In
             this category falls patches like fixing build scripts to follow
             LSB even though upstream don't want to, striping out embedded
             libraries and fixing compilation against system ones and such.

Second line of patch is optional and it can contain line starting with BUGS:
and then list all bug numbers. Following abbreviations can be used:

upstream#[0-9]+   upstream bug tracking number
bnc#[0-9]+        Novell Bugzilla number

Optional third line is TAGS. It contain blank separated set of patch features
that patch has. apply-series.sh script can take additional arguments that
specifies which features you DON'T like so patches with these tags will be
excluded even if they are mentioned in series file.

Optionally after empty line, patch description can continue with more detailed
description of the patch.

Detailed description (if it is there) should be followed by empty line and list
of maintainers in following format:

Maintainer: Joe Hacker <joe.hacker@gmail.com>
Maintainer: Ben Lamer <ben.lamer@msn.com>
